# FooBAR: Proposed solution to counting foot traffic in a populated student facility

FooBAR is the first semester project for Dr. Shawn Lupoli in his CSCE 315-504 class. This repository contains the python source code that will interact with Arduino sensors and a MySQL database hosted by the university in order to create a functional product that satisfies all customer requirements.

## Installment
Obtaining the source code for this project is straightforward. If the user is new to git, than a download link (giant green button) can be found in the top right of the GitHub file explorer. However, if the user is familiar with git, then all they must do is a simple "git clone <URL>," using the URL link that can also be found under the big green button above.

#### Note for team members
It is recommended to clone this repository in a location <b>outside</b> of the team Drive folder. This way, changes are not being synced inadvertently, and commits overwritten. This theoretically would not be a problem if proper branching convention is being followed, but there is nothing wrong with being extra safe.

## Maintenance
To maintain and develop this project, first clone it as described in the Installment section. Run "git status" to check that everything worked, that you are up to date, and that you are on the "master" branch.
Next, create a new branch for your individual development. The proper convention for branching is to make a new branch for any new feature, bug fix, or any other individual component added to the code base. Once this component is proven to work, then a <b>pull request</b> will be initiated, which will be discussed below. For now, let's look more into creating a new branch.
To create your new branch, run "git checkout -b <your branch name>." This should create a new branch that is exactly the same as the current branch you are on when you ran the command, but any changes made will not affect the original branch. <b> This is very important when branching off of the master branch. We do not want to make changes directly to master. </b> Run "git status" again to be sure that you are not on your new branch. Now, you will be able to write as much code as you want, test it, save it, or delete it, and not affect the rest of the people on the project.
When you are ready to add something to your branch (code that definitely works and that you want to keep), you'll need to commit it. When you run "git status," it should give you a list of files that have been modified, but "not staged for commit." If you want all of these files, simply run "git add .", which will add all of the files in your <i>current directory</i> ("."). If you do <b>not</b> want all of these files, only a few, then you have to add them individually, by typing "git add" and then the path of the file.
Adding and committing changes will keep your changes local to your branch. When you are ready to push them to the remote repository, simply run "git push." This may ask your for your login credentials, so enter those. It may also give you an error about setting the upstream branch. Follow the recommended instructions, and you will be set and won't have to change anything after.
When you have finished your branch, and it is ready to be added to the final product, the branch must be checked for conflicts before it is able to be merged into the parent branch. Make sure all of your changes have been committed ("git status"). If you have changes that you do not want to keep, simply run "git stash" to stash them away (Note: this is not technically the purpose of "stash." However, it is good enough for our purposes. If you want to apply these changes to the new branch for some reason, run "git stash pop"). Once you have saved all of your local changes, we need to update the branch we want to add to locally first, then update our local branch with those changes. After all of that, we will be able to add the new code to the remote repository.
To update the target branch (still "master" in this example), first check out that branch by running "git checkout master," then "git pull." As long as you are not making any changes directly to master (which you should not be), then this should not result in any conflicts. Next, check out your custom branch (same command as above), then merge the target branch into your custom branch by running "git merge master." This will merge "master" <i>into</i> the branch you are on.
Hopefully, this will not result in any problems and you can move on. However, sometimes things happen and you will end up with glaring "Merge Conflicts" errors. Git is smart enough to locate these in your code, and edit your files to show you where the conflict is and what each branch has in their file. The top section will be denoted with "<<<< HEAD" - anything between this segment and ">>>>> master" is the code you wrote. Anything between that and "=======" is the code in the master branch. Compare the two segments, and rework things until you have the right code. Commit these changes, and finally push your branch to the remote repository.
When your branch is finally complete and ready to add to the final product, it's time to open a <i>pull request</i>. Return to the GitHub web portal and click the "New pull request" button at the top, near the green "download" button. If you have recently pushed a branch, then it will probably recommend that branch to create a pull request with. If not, then select the "base" branch as master (or whatever branch you branched off), and "compare" as your branch. This should be pretty straightforward, since any conflicts should have been resolved in the previous step, but if there are more be careful to resolve them all and try again. On the right side of the page, add a user (the repo owner is a good choice) as a "Reviewer," then submit the request. When the reviewer has checked it and verified that it is a good change, then it will be merged into the branch as a new commit. Congratulations! You have now successfuly contributed to the final product.
